---
title: Song A Week App, Part 1
slug: song-a-week-app-part-1
tags: JavaScript, React, Amplify, AWS, Lambda, Fargate, GraphQL Node, Gatsby, Typescript
abstract:
date: 2024-03-11
draft: true
---

Several years ago, I joined an email list based community of music makers and volunteered to make an app for it. The rule was you would email a new recording of an original song to the host before the deadline each week. The host would then compile all the songs into a playlist and send out the link when it was ready along with a new prompt. If you didn't make the deadline, as an accountability check, you would be removed from the email list and wouldn't get the playlist and follow-up prompt.

The group started small but grew as it allowed members to invite friends during the sign-up period every several months. As it grew, it became logistically challenging because the host needed to spend hours each week downloading all the files from many emails, converting them, uploading them, copying over metadata, creating playlists on Bandcamp and later SoundCloud, cross-checking lists to determine who should be removed from the list, updating email lists, etc. So, I volunteered and started brainstorming ideas to automate the process.

It didn't take long to realize that the best approach would be to build out a dedicated app where users both uploaded their submissions and listen to the playlists. However, it would be challenging to enhance the current user experience and not something I could accomplish overnight. For members, it was convenient to email a track to the host and then get back a link to a playlist on a quality sound streaming service like SoundCloud.
